---
id: 4q43lxpyiusmv7mx2q6dxn7
title: EL19
desc: ''
updated: 1657122956657
created: 1656858243124
---

## Sentences

- Topic + Action or state
- Subject + Predicate

## Sentence Structure: SS1

> Subject + Intransitive Verb (V.i)

### Wrong example

> I am discussing **(V.t.)** ~~about~~ academic writing.

> The weather affect **(V.t.)** ~~to~~ our mood.

> I am waiting **(V.i)** for you.

> I am awaiting **(V.t.)** ~~for~~ you.

### Trick

    lead to + N
    
    cause + N
    
    result in + N
    
    bring about + N

## Sentence Structure: SS2

> Subject + Transitive Verb (V.t) + Object

### Trick

    A affects B
    
    discuss ~~with~~
    
    enjoy ~~with~~

## Sentence Structure: SS3

> Subject + Verb + Object 1 + Object 2

### Words

- give
- teach
- tell
- grant
- offer
- guarantee

### Example

    I shared my friends the photos of my son.

### Pattern

> 1. $SVO_1O_2$

> 2. $SVO_2prepO_1$

## Sentence Structure: SS4

> Subject + LInking Verb + complement

### SS4.1

> Subject + Linking Verb + Adjective (adj.)

### SS4.2

> Subject + Linking Verb + Noun (N.)

### SS4.3

> Subject + Linking Verb + Preposition Phrase (Prep. phrase)

## Ground rules

## Group 1 = $C_1$

- and
- but
- or

### Pattern

> SV, $c_1$sV.

## Group 2 = $C_2$

- because
- if
- when
- since
- as
- before
- after
- although

### Pattern

> 1. SV$c_2$sV.
>
> 2. $C_2$sV, sV.

## Group 3 = $C_3$

- moreover
- in addition
- furthermore
- also
- similarly
- however
- on the other hand
- therefore
- consequently
- thus
- for example
- for instance
- first / second / third / finally
- next / then / after that

### Pattern

> 1. SV. $C_3$, sV.
>
> 2. SV; $c_3$, sV.

## Introduction

- General Statement: 3-4 Sentences
  - mention the problem
  - grab attention of your audience
  - definition of the a problem / word
- Thesis Statement: 1 Sentence
  - answer the question
  - main idea of essay
  - scope your essay / direction

## Body Paragraph

1. Topic Sentence
   1. a complete sentence
   2. give direction of the paragraph
   3. controlling ideas
2. Supporting Sentence
   1. Sub-Supporting Sentence

### Trick
    There are some effects of unstable energy supply in some developing countries, which are $N_1$ and $N_2$.

## Topoi

### Problems / effects / issues

    - What are the causes and effects of the problem?
    = Can the causes and the effects of the problems be categorized into the local, national or global ones?
    - What or who are the specific groups that create and suffer from the problem? Can they be ranked in terms of severity?

### Solutions

    - What are the solutions to the problems?
    - Who will be responsible for implementation of the solution (doer of the action)?
    - How will the solutions be implemented by thr doer?
    - What are the benefits of the proposed solutions?
    - Can the benefits be categorized:
      - as local, national or global?
      - for specific groups of beneficiaries?
    - Can the benefits be ranked in terms of significance?

## Conclusion

1. signal the end
   1. In conclusion,
   2. In summary,
   3. To conclude,
2. paraphrase the main of the idea of the entire text (from the introductory paragraph) *restate-say the same thing in a different way*
3. summarize the main points from the body paragraphs

## Start Sentence Trick

    Over the past few decades,

    Nowadays,

    At present,

    These day,

## Noted

> Although~~,~~ &rarr; Although (not have comma)

> ~~can not~~ &rarr; cannot

> must not

> consider: S + consider + Obj1 + Obj2

> concerns

    1. V.t. = making + Obj + worried about + Subj.
   
    A concerns B
    = B is worried about A

    Your writing concerns me.
    = I am worried about your writing.

    2. N. [Count. Noun]

    Your writing is my concern.

    Global warming is a big concern among those in the field.

    3. adjective

    A is / am / are + concerned about B

    A is / am / are + worried about B

> around &rarr; approximately

> There are many effects of Covid-19 which are occurring in many countries.

> The first effect is solid waste because...

> The second effect is an economy.

> The last effect is health effects.

> Therefore, many tourist areas lack the people.

> really / tremendously / vastly / greatly

> well / potentially / effectively / efficiently

> big / enormous / acclaimed แปลว่า ใหญ่

> ไม่ค่อยจะ rarely / barely / hardly ใช้กับความถี่

> อย่างน้อย (บอกระดับ) slightly / insignificantly

> **ask for** help / assistance

> carefully / deliberately

> choose / opt / selecl

> expect / target

> consistent / relevant

> utilize / exert / employ

> higher / extra / further / additional

> larger number / proportion

> get / acquire / obtain

> advancements / advances

> everyday (adj.) / every day (adv.) / daily (adv.)

> urban ในเมือง / rural ขนบท

> effective / pleasant

> many / several / various / multiple

> change / solve / improve / alleviate

> ubiquitous / omnipresent / usual

> increasing / rising

> ways / manners / methods

> arrange / manage

> appropriate / proper / suitable / opportune

> product / merchandises / items / goods

> adequately / enough

> migration (N.) / migrate from (V.i.)

### Adv. (ly) ขยายประโยค / V. / Adj. / Adv. / ขยายอะไร มักจะวางหน้า หรือ หลังสิ่งนั้น

> ขยายกริยา วางหน้าหรือหลังก็ได้ ส่วนใหญ่นิยมวางหน้า

> ขยายประโยค วางหน้าหรือหลังก็ได้ ถ้าวางข้างหน้า ต้องมี comma: Adv.,S. + V.

> Will + Adv. + V.inf. / Adv. + Adv. / Adv. + Adj.

    The students potentially practice/prepare for the exam.

    These people are really/vastly friendly.

    Most people rarely ask for help/assistance from others unless they have seriously troubles.

## Words

    N. สาเหตุ: cause / factor / reason

    N. ผลกระทบ: effect / impact / result / consequence

    N. ปัญหา: problem / issue / difficulty / struggle / obstacle

    N. ทางแก้: solution / settlement

### Trick

    ทางแก้: ทางแก้ของเรื่องนี้คือการกระตุ้นเศรษฐกิจ

    N./V.ing/This (situation/circumstance) can be/must be/should be + (adv.อย่างมีประสิทธิภาพ) + V.3 แก้ไข + by N./V.ing.

    This circumstance can be potentially alleviated by stimulating the economy.

> they averagely spend one third of their lives on work.

> Since many countries are terrified of the Covid-19 pandemic.

## Noted Vocabulary

abuse: use (something) to bad effect or for a bad purpose; misuse.